hello this is chef John for food wishes
calm with it be incredibly easy and
always popular vodka sauce doing it on
some penne which is kind of traditional
you could do this on spaghetti anything
super easy to make and it starts with
sauteing usually pancetta which is a nun
smoked Italian bacon type product but I
like to use bacon so you know call me a
bad Italian or you know call me a good
American but I like to use bacon it's
got a little smoky flavor I think it
works really well I actually have pepper
bacon here so in about a tablespoon of
olive oil I'm going to cook that on
medium heat I'm gonna throw in a sprig
of rosemary and when that gets looking
just about like that I'm going to dump
in a half a cup of vodka now stand back
when you do that because it could flare
up and it usually doesn't especially if
you're using a pan the shape I'm using
using a really shallow panic and flame
up so be careful with that now whenever
I make this I always think where did I
get vodka I don't drink vodka I have two
bottles of vodka in my freezer I've no
clue where they came from so thank you
vodka fairies so we're going to put that
on high heat and when it gets down to a
couple tablespoons left see that it's
not evaporated but it's starting to
bubble it's getting close we're going to
dump in our cream that's heavy cream
give that a swirl all right after the
cream goes in we're going to add some
black pepper you can add some hot red
chili flakes if you want I'm going to go
with some black pepper and as soon as
that cream comes back to a boil we're
going to cook that for about 3-4 minutes
the cream is going to reduce see that
it's going to thicken up slightly it'll
kind of hold a mark at the bottom of the
pan we don't want to over reduce it but
we want to reduce it a little bit maybe
by half I'm going to dump in 3 cups of
prepared tomato sauce and about 3/4 of a
cup of water that I washed out the jar
with we're going to bring that to a
simmer lower the heat and simmer that
for about 20-25 minutes and it's going
to be unbelievably delicious and it gets
to be a really beautiful color in my
opinion I don't like a ton of cream you
notice I only put a half a cup I don't
like the pink vodka sauces I look at a
nice kind of brick red color like you
see there all right so that's going to
simmer away in the meantime we're going
to boil our penne pasta in salted water
I'm using the Barilla brand I like the
multigrain and then you know the trick
drain the pasta cook it one minute under
what you normally would dump the hot
sauce over it stir it around and then
we're going to throw the lid on and let
it sit for about five minutes and just
relax
it's going to soak up the sauce it's
going to finish cooking and then we
serve it with a little extra cheese on
top vodka sauce really really delicious
and you may have heard Alton Brown or
one of those other food scientists guys
say it but there's certain flavors in
tomato that are only brought out if you
introduce alcohol into the sauce so this
is one of those that's why it has a
really interesting taste you can use
pancetta you can use bacon and you can
make a vegetarian if you want so that's
it penne pasta with vodka sauce I hope
you give that a try all the ingredients
are on the site and as always enjoy
you